# Support for Travis CI container-based infrastructure

[Travis][travis-home], a continuous-integration service, introduced a
new *container-based* infrastructure, promising more speed and
reactivity than the old *virtual-machine-based* infrastructure, which
is now deemed *deprecated*.  Users willing to take the move to the new
infrastructure are facing a major obstacle: the *container-based*
infrastructure does not support the **sudo** command, which, in
cascade, implies that the Travis users are not able any-more to
install packages from random package sources.  These dependencies now
need to be installed from source until you arrange so that a
repository containing these dependencies has been white-listed.

The script `anvil_travisci_autoinstall.sh` will ease this operation
for **OCaml**, **opam** and **BSD Owl** users â€” one could almost
seriously consider the use of [PkgSRC][pkgsrc-home]!


## Setting up Travis

We set up Travis to take advantage of its cache, which is not optional
since a compilation matrices involving the three latest **OCaml**
compilers needs about 15 minutes setup.  For the purpose of the
discussion, we consider the example of [mixture][mixture-home], an
**OCaml** library implementing common mixins.  Let us walk through its
`.travis.yml` file:

    language: c
    sudo: false
    addons:
      apt:
        sources:
        - avsm
        packages:
        - ocaml
        - opam
        - ocaml-native-compilers
    install: sh -ex ./Library/Ancillary/autoinstall bmake bsdowl opam
    cache:
      directories:
      - ${HOME}/.local
      - ${HOME}/.opam
    script: sh -ex ./Library/Ancillary/travisci
    env:
      - TRAVIS_OCAML_VERSION=4.00.1
      - TRAVIS_OCAML_VERSION=4.01.0
      - TRAVIS_OCAML_VERSION=4.02.3

The first declarations, `language`, `sudo` and `addons` constitute the
typical prelude of OCaml projects.  The script
`./Library/Ancillary/autoinstall` installs dependencies from sources
and initialises **opam**.  The sources are installed to
`${HOME}/.local` and **opam** files are stored in `${HOME}/.opam`,
caching these files allows us to skip completely this step in case of
a cache hit.  We present the `autoinstall` script later, but right now
we want to take a look at the last lines of `.travis.yml`: it defines
the actual continuous integration script and a build environement
matrix.

The continuous integration script is everything but fancy, it setups
**opam** to target the compiler announced by *TRAVIS_OCAML_VERSION*
and runs the traditional `autoconf; ./configure; bmake all` combo:

    INSTALL_PREFIX="${HOME}/.local"
    eval $(opam config env)
    autoconf
    ./configure --prefix="${INSTALL_PREFIX}"
    bmake -I "${INSTALL_PREFIX}/share/bsdowl" all


## The autoinstall script

The script installing dependencies from sources actually delegates the
job to `anvil_travisci_autoinstall.sh`.  Theoretically, this script
could be bundled in the distribution instead of being downloaded, but
doing so eases updates.  The `autoinstall` script is:

    : ${local:=${HOME}/.local}
    : ${srcdir:=${HOME}/.local/sources}

    if [ -f "${local}/.anvil_autoinstall_cached" ]; then exit 0; fi

    git clone 'https://github.com/michipili/anvil' "${srcdir}/anvil"
    /bin/sh -ex "${srcdir}/anvil/subr/anvil_travisci_autoinstall.sh" "$@"\
        && touch "${local}/.anvil_autoinstall_cached"

When the installation is succeful, it leaves a cookie in the cache,
whose existance guards an early exit condition.  The `autoinstall`
script supports three arguments, `bmake`, `bsdowl` and `opam`
requiring the setup of the corresponding packages.  When setting up
`opam` the file `.travis.opam` is read to find out which compilers and
packages need to be installed:

    compiler:
      - 4.00.1
      - 4.01.0
      - 4.02.3
    repository:
      - ocamlfind
    git:
      - https://github.com/michipili/broken.git

The syntax of this file imitates the YaML format used in `.travis.yml`
but it is converted to a tabular format with **sed** so that
imaginative formatting is discouraged.  There is two ways to specify a
dependant package: either by reffering to a name in the official
repository, or directly with a **git** repository supporting *opam*
pinning.

  [bsdowl-home]:   https://github.com/michipili/bsdowl
  [travis-home]:   https://travis-ci.org
  [pkgsrc-home]:   http://pkgsrc.joyent.com
  [mixture-home]:  http://github.com/michipili/mixture
